docs/doc/web.rst, before:

#########
Web tools
#########

The BioThings.API web tools use the Tornado Web Server to respond to incoming API requests.

.. py:module:: biothings

******************
Server boot script
******************

.. automodule:: biothings.www.index_base

.. automethod:: biothings.www.index_base.main

********
Settings
********

.. automodule:: biothings.www.settings

Config module
=============

BiothingWebSettings
===================
.. autoclass:: biothings.www.settings.BiothingWebSettings
    :members:

BiothingESWebSettings
=====================

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.settings.BiothingESWebSettings
    :members:

********
Handlers
********

BaseHandler
===========

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.helper.BaseHandler
    :members:

BaseESRequestHandler
====================

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.base_handler.BaseESRequestHandler
    :members:

BiothingHandler
---------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.biothing_handler.BiothingHandler
    :members:

QueryHandler
------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.query_handler.QueryHandler
    :members:

MetadataHandler
---------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.metadata_handler.MetadataHandler
    :members:

***************************
Elasticsearch Query Builder
***************************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query_builder.ESQueries
    :members:

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query_builder.ESQueryBuilder
    :members:

*******************
Elasticsearch Query
*******************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query.ESQuery
    :members:

********************************
Elasticsearch Result Transformer
********************************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.transform.ESResultTransformer
    :members:

Commit message:

Splitting tutorial into 3 pages, trying to standardize naming conventions throughout docs, testing out autodoc on data loading section.

docs/doc/web.rst, after:

#############
Web component
#############

The BioThings SDK web component contains tools used to generate and customize an API, given an Elasticsearch index with data.  The web component uses the Tornado Web Server to respond to incoming API requests.

.. py:module:: biothings

******************
Server boot script
******************

.. automodule:: biothings.www.index_base

.. automethod:: biothings.www.index_base.main

********
Settings
********

.. automodule:: biothings.www.settings

Config module
=============

BiothingWebSettings
===================

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.settings.BiothingWebSettings
    :members:

BiothingESWebSettings
=====================

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.settings.BiothingESWebSettings
    :members:

********
Handlers
********

BaseHandler
===========

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.helper.BaseHandler
    :members:

BaseESRequestHandler
====================

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.base_handler.BaseESRequestHandler
    :members:

BiothingHandler
---------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.biothing_handler.BiothingHandler
    :members:

QueryHandler
------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.query_handler.QueryHandler
    :members:

MetadataHandler
---------------

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.handlers.metadata_handler.MetadataHandler
    :members:

***************************
Elasticsearch Query Builder
***************************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query_builder.ESQueries
    :members:

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query_builder.ESQueryBuilder
    :members:

*******************
Elasticsearch Query
*******************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.query.ESQuery
    :members:

********************************
Elasticsearch Result Transformer
********************************

.. autoclass:: biothings.www.api.es.transform.ESResultTransformer
    :members:
